
Political compass (general)

History of the INC
Rise of the BJP
	- post the emergency
Modern times
Regional parties
	_Shiv Sena
	- AAP
Personal Laws - Regional Laws
Dravidian parties - their history is unique and a bit seperate


Universal Civil Court
Dravidian Politics
	- History (periyal)
Coalitions
	- Pros and cons of regional parties making coalitions with foregin parties


---

Politicaal compass

Authoritatrioan - more control of the state
Libertarian - more individual control (Anarchy) or more local forms of government - local communities

China and Russia even more are Authoritarian, (lil bit Cuba and Venezuela)

Economic left - system of protectionism
economic right

social left - a lot more liberty ot marginalised groups historically excluded from progress (gen, left)

social right - conservatives, indicative of maintatining certain policies

Most countries fall in the middle

--- 

INC - 

BJP - a lil bit more free market (portrayal) but haven't madde such changes

Economic - a little of left

Our economic policies has changed radically onlyy once -
Nehruvian socialism - economic left(ish) - required at the particular time - promotion of business (1950s)

1950s 1990s - lot of countries began benfitting from the globalistaion - that's when India began opening up markets (manmohan singh)

But still, india is still a bit socialist market 

Liscense raj system - nationalisisng certain stuff like coal mines. Liscencing was required for doing any businesses. Governments had to approve businesses. Also brought up lots of corruption.. AKA 'crony socialism'.
This changed to the more liberlaised economy - I think, Panchayati Raj System

MNGRA - INC poolicies.
food and milk revoultion - a bit before that

BJP - came across as appealing to the youth of India. But around 2019 pandered to the business of India. But, nevertheless their economic plicies are similar to INC

---

US politic debates is not parties but leaders themselves.

Moderate freemdom fighters - maintained diersity from all sects - Hindus, Muslims, etc. - At its absolute inception included all levels of Hindus - composed of moderate freedom fighters

INC started breaking up  - 1947 - BR Ambedkar left. Muslim leaders also left becasue they werent getting the chance to make more Muslim policies. Nehru came into play.

INC has a dynastic nature - Nehru to Sonia to Rajiv to Rahul
	- It's a party of the elites, werent rep of indian diaspora
	- INC, crony socialism, till 2014, absolute control
	- Also takes soft stances on Terror, example Naxalites
	- Indira Gandhi declared the emergency - wanted to maintatin power. The first time prob where it was an attacck on deomcracy.
(Till then INC was still seen as a party that gave voice to other people, didn;t actively silence)
	- Pakistan Malaysia, Singapore, Bangladesh also got independence at same times. GB had skeptic. India was the one of the first among these countries came up with idea of unity in diversity. 
	- Jayaprakash Narayan protest against Indira Gandhi, became a spark for existence of other parties.
	- Mural chief deasai - INC counter who did not belive in emrgency
	
---

Jan Sang - became RSS and BJP

Post INC - shah Banu (during Rajiv Gandhi) - a case in the Indian Supreme Court - Muslim Personal Laws - cannot interfere with personal laws - but the larger public aggreedd that Rajiv gandhi was pandering to Muslim boots - RK Advani and demoluton of Babari Masjid and so on - so Hindus felt a little attacked - so Hindu identity party - Students who grew up to become political parties

INC - rising upto power non-existent
But, BJO - gives a perception that you can rise throught the ranks. Post, Shah Banu the Hindu identity need became stronger.

Vajpayee, a unique leader part of the RSS who was quite moderate.
RSS was banned twice after inciting violence - one godse part of RSS kill Gandhi

Vajpayee was not very RSS - more moderate.

---

Modi - 2014 rallied employemnet, make in INdia, local business, rural areass, helping youg goats in cities

INC - general public beleived there wasnt much done by congress - and coming out of many scnadals -  2G scandal and Robert Bandra

BJP also cpaitalised on the Gujarat Model - Modi credited to Key development in Gujarat

BJP first election - didn't have much support in Lok sabha and many states adn all

BJP shifted away from RSS - 
Saffron terror - also been more escalated rn

anit-incumbency

INC is unwilling to chaange - they don't change Rahul Gandhi - Shashi Tharoor who can take place. so, it's demise is closing in. Which is why people are very skeptical to vote them into power again.

Mode - got lot more power now than last election - BJP is still afraid to implement much more radical policies. GST was INC's from 2008, but implemented by Modi. Basic economic plicies similar to INC except liberlaisation of market.

golden quadrilateral was a bjp idea implemented by the congress

---

Regional parties - shiv sena rising into power - Bal takhare - marathi identity - a lot of south indian was taking more jobs, they portrayed - needed a figure, bal takhare - and shivaji was the ruler whose ruler in the past and hence name

But align closer with BJP now, but a marathi hindu party.

---

AAP - support only in Delhi - Arvind Kejriwal key figure - anti-incombency, that's why came into power, similar to BJP - Sheena Dixit? - Gras root level campaigning - tansparent in working - donations ceame from crowd-sourcing within Delhi. Will take definite amounts of time (decades) but allegations that they are taking donations from elsewhere. Incetion = anti-corruption (ideal)

After seeing AAP succcess - tried to copy it in Tamil Nadu. 

CPI (Congress Party of India) - a party of the labourer class - large support in Labour Unions - Labour laws are quite strong. Minimum wage. The policies are quite Socialist. Status Quo a bit center of left. Labour unions recently supported Kannaiah Kumar (nor televant)
Came into power in Bangal before Mamata Bannerjee, and in Kerala before INC and BJP

Mamamta Bannerjee - center of left, or more left. TNC is more left - very open to immigration, allowed Bangladeshis to come in and get citizenships
- A lot of Bengali Hindus have lost a lot of jobs.
- Most recent election - some amt of support for BJP in the latest election because of this.

Bahujan Samajan Aadmi Party - for the OBC's (?) and lower cast

RJD

Chandrashekar Azad - ver recent and new - anti-CA and anti-BJP. Puts himself as a person who brings the Muslim and lower class together in UP.

---

Religion and state has always been seperated - personal laws for each religion

Religious laws have some amount of say
Hindus - marriage and property says

Universal Civil Court - all individuals are dictated by the same laws - and BJP wants this. BJP's rationale thought, if you're Indian same laws for your - gained momentum after triple talaq
pros - uniform set of code
cons - muslims see it as hindus make policies which muslims have to follow. If they will even have any say in the way policies being made.

Muslim diapsora are getting attacked recently in the past. Including the lower cast individuals. And muslims are quite faraid fo the ruling clsas party.

BJP shifted a bit more for radical policies and have defended the policies for long.

(Shariya courts - majority muslim in Nature)

---


Dravidian Politics

Tamil Nadu has always been a self-sufficient state. in terms of how much it contirbutes to GDP and all.

Lots of diversity of India. One of them is lnguage. And one of them is the unifcation of India through language, chosen as Hindi. 

Southern laguages were largely different from Hindi. Tamil Nadu had none. Hindi was seen a tool to unify India on the basis of Language.
 
But the way it was implemented was seen as being orced onto the a persons culture. 

Tamil Nadu was first sen as anti-center who was against Hindi.

Periyar was one of the first leaders who created a Tamil identity and can be created as the father of Dravidian politics (and is mostly in Tamil Nadu).

Periyar - anti-hindi, anti-hindu, anti-gandhi, anti-uppercaste, anti-center

anti-hindi, anti-hindu - defaced a lot of hindu gods and godesses and broke temples and publicly defaced a lot of statues like Gandhi

was the inception of dravidian politics

but never seen to be exiting TN becasue no figures like periyar in other states and loewer caste is seen as a votebank

TN succession from India was seen as a more larger threat before during the imposition of hindi

TN is credited for best social policies. Disenchantment of Upper caste becasue they cater to the lower caste. Uniquely TN has one of the most caste violence, but has one of the best welfare policies.

Power is often centralised within leaders. Example, Amma.

Periyar - against Hindu identity - Hinduism seen as a religion by upper caste to institionalise people. which is quite true.

BR Ambedkar was also similar and joined Buddhism along with his followers.

Periar had similar ideologies (bt different times) but had different viscerality. Periyar public defamins, but Ambedkar not so much. But probably BR Ambedkar didn't do that becasue he couldn't do much about it.

(tell them about education and history whitewashing by in power parties in India, ties into this pro-hindi thing you're talking about)

---

Coalition

India is a quasi-federal structure - states can often get bullied from the central. For exapmle, reduced funding for TN. 

State and concurrent list - but 

How is wuasi federal relevant?

Coalition work with an idea with a common middle-ground. EXample, Shiv Sena alliance with BJP in the NDA. Both parties don't get betrayed. But needs to be beneficial to both parties.

Karnataka - anti-defection the recntent coalitions and bereaking away was some drama XD

---

