Dr. Naveen Fernandes - Financial Planner

Samvitti Capital

Haveing a plan is better than having money.
Not just enough to have a goal or dream - it is also necessary to have money.

If your grandma doesn't understand , your plan is flawed. (Colin Powell)

Excellence is the right thing when no one is looking over your shoulders - Prof Huggy Rao

Income is made of 2 parts 
	- day-to-day job/business
	- second stream of income (setting aside money)

current income - household - budget

governments work the opposite way (works on defecits) - how much to spend, then where to raise it

assets, housing not so good in the first 10-15 years of your career

22 years - education
38 years - accumulation phase
30 years - draw out on our corpus

1. creation of income and the creation of wealth
(RM lala's - creation of wealth)

2. Insurance Planning

3. Tax Planning
(Beattles - Taxman)VP SINGH - 60% to 40% to now 30%
Tax effiecieny of a persons investemsts

4. Retirement planning

5. Planning for your children/s future



Investment Planning
1. Fixed/capital Assets
	- precious metals, real estate, art
	(bimetalism, ratio of gold to silver, anything greater than 60 is awesome)

2. Liquid investments
	- cash (cash is king- during stock market cash)
	- equity
	- debt (creates massive welath over thousands of years)
	- commodities (could be difficult)

"Do not invest money in any asset I don't understand" - prof.

Desires
	1. returns - real returns (returns after inflation - hardly a 150 year old)
Judaism, christianity, islam - ban on penal interest rates that hurt a person
Chanakya Neethi - low interest rates at 2%pm for borrowing to eat
	- business man - 10%
	- middle man - 5%
	(interest is liked to risk involved)
1.06/1.05 (fd/inflation) - actual returns

	2. security of capital and returns
money erodes anywhere because of inflation
	
	3. liquidity at reasonable cost
higher interest rate, if kept for a longer period (return proportional to investment horizon)

Myths on investment

1. You can time the market by valuation, not by the clock.
"Greater fool principle" - I'm a fool, but there will be a greater fool who will buy it from me.
Caused due to FOMO - that's why people randomly invest - missing out on opportunity to make money, and to tell stories

2. "Time in the market is more important than timing the market"

3. "Equity is the best investment" - could be equity or debt

4. "Debt does not provide an inflation hedge"

5. "Always use you income to repay all debts" - never for house loans

6. "high risk - high profits" - infact it's always the opposite


"My holding period is forever"
Have a core portfolio
Be quick to earn and take it away, but hold it for log (18 months for Warren Buffet)

"Buy low, sell high"
Common business model in India - one man show - takes loan from family members
PE Ratio - valuation

If you don't take the money put it in your pocket, paper money will erode.

Peter lynch - one upon wall street

When everyone is investing, selll your stocks and book your profits.

When random people invest and people are talking about sell everything and get out

Richard Taller - behavioural economics - that change valuations of your investments

Return on equity - how much return company makes on its capital

PEG - How much I am willing to pay for the growth

BSE - highs and the lows 
Sensex history since 1992

Timing the market is very important - invest at a low, and 

2003 - 2008 jan/feb - 800% return - 70% p.a.

Otherwise, if you buy at a high and sell at a high, no so good, but even worse, you'lll probably lose

Index was not a good measure till 2006

Investment mgmt equity funds
	active investing
		diversified - growth
				 - value - companies which have fantastic assets which I believe are undervalued
SBI sell propety - valuation will increase like mad

Taj - for every ruppee they borrowed, they were earning 7% but rate of interest for the land they bought was 12%

If you didn't sell it, then book value only, can''t really make profits.

value investing - lot of research

Growth - above average in their growths and profits

Winners rotate - value vs growth for equity,





Diversification - bad
Warren Buffet has the ability to research very deeply, explains why he is successful

diversification - 15-20 stocks more sensible

a radioactive dump bomb that makes a city inahbitable, or a dirty bomb (bring down computers and electric grids)

gold prices go up during war (has value anywhere and everywhere)

Compuonding is the eighth wonder of the world - Einstein
	Debt market

return of 8%p.a.
25 - 10,000 -> 11 lacs at 60
35 - 10,000 -> 8 lacs at 60


Jesus parables - master calls 3 servants - 5 tallants(3.5 kg) of gold, 3 gold, 1 gold

5 doubled 5, returns 5 keeps 5
3 doubles, returns 3 keep 3
1 returns 1, if he kept in bank, mode fortunes.

Basis point
Manhattan - costliest real estate in the world

term policy
insurance should take care of the debt i have, and any unmet gpals - spouse.
age till having insurance 60 - 65

insurance company is an expert on risk.
medical insurance is also important
personal accident insurance - commissions are very small, so insurance company never sells - life insurance does not coverr this - coverrrs also death in an accidentt - most important insurance to have - very low premiumm

ppf great investment because of tax angle

state mandated health insurance - mandatory in europe but with excellent healthcare facilities

insurance is a backup in case something happens

health insurance - govt provides under employee state insurance

life insurance - only if you have a liability (# a kid)

people are still afraid to make a will









Session 2
income - set aside a pre planned amount to a payment to your future / goal.
cash, long term debt, equity 
when do i want the money - investment horizon
My asset allocation must meet that goal

risk tolerance, goal and link it to to your time frame of your investment

differnt kiind of risks - risk of taxation/inflation (tax first, inflation next)

asset allocation model - is key to generating wealth - markovitz model
Harry markovitz
I don't follow my own model. I keep it simple - 50% in equity and 50% in debt. Low complications.

proper asset allocation - might result in diversification

ss23 shouldn't be followed
book by Talib - foreword - university of chicago - forecast 2008 crash - raghuram rajan

bullion is atractive
sameesh kumar
"The problem with bubbles can grow very very big" 
FOMO - we buy garbage stocks - and then once we find its garbage value, we'll suffer - equity/bond market


asset mix
save taxes
	section 80C - financial assets - save 2 lpa
	section 24

invest for tax saving

rule of 69 / 72 / 115 / 144

rule of 72 is for doubling money
72 / interest rate - number of years to double your money - good estimate
69 - exact calculation for doubling - + 0.35
155 - triple
144 - quadruple

esoteric - art & aesthetics etc.




careers in stock market
dealer, analyst, salesperson - almost always has some form of selling in stock market - either selling a product, or myself - stock broker, portfolio manager, research, editing of research...
all one rule: read - 7 newspapers a day.
Research or fund mgmt - interact with people - people who call you an idiot.
" a mutual fanclub"
A discussion of ideas. study what 

Warren Buffet - reads 500 pages A4 size everyday

Bill Gates - read one book every week

research reports

read, analayse, criticise - don't have to agree with anyone or anything

Derivatives are another school of study - that talk about reducing risk

structured products

avoid anything you don't understand

how much cash do i need? - plan my cash flows, then I look at my balance

Adam smith - father of economics

Capital is the money I set aside to give me money

5% of financial assets - are largely bank deposits

Developed economies have more in financial assets

wealth managements students advise - minimum of 10 years, don't buy a house. Return on rental yields are hardly 3%. Pay 2% of the property value. Real estate, quite a bad idea.

grandparents invested in gold and real estate cuz they didnt have other options

prefer to borrow money and make greater returns on the money

fungibility - interchanganbility

100ruppee note  = 2 50 ruppee notes

start saving for retirement now. in between, great opportuinty. take retirement money and use it. and fill that money up later

spend a bit on education

but once you take it , fil it up again.



mutual funds are a vehicle
liquid fund / overnight fund
go up the yield curve in
equity, pull out equity and go into debt (mf)
big money - bonds

ppf - awesomest account in India

start building up your assets today

one upon wall street




Cryptocurrency
coin capital market.com - market captilisation of various crytpo currencies - exteremly volatile
priniting crypto at home
can't bank it


Piyush Goyal

Best way to double your meny is to fold it and put it back in your pocket.

options can kill you.

read, question, analyse, and just start. start small. put in the kind of meny you can afford to lose. Lose money in your first investments. 1000 in ppf. look at mututal funds. direct equity. portfolio management scheme. make very small investements, kind of money you can afford to lose and lose it.

casinos in india in goa - normal entry fee 3000 bucks - lose the money and get out

Day trader - stupid
stock trader - old newspapers in the office

atleast read one financial newspaper everyday

80C benefit

KISS priniciple - works in investments

no fast money

charitable work is also a tremendous investment

